Adding Workaround to debug remotely from Studio (#77)
mulesoft/docs-studio: modules/ROOT/pages/to-start-server-debug-mode.adoc

> = Starting the Mule Server In Debug Mode

Reviewer: INSTRUCTIONS FOR EDIT REVIEW

Hi Kim! I have an edit request for a Studio example: #77
I only need the file modules/ROOT/pages/to-start-server-debug-mode.adoc edited.
I updated pretty much the entire article, so please edit the whole thing.

Reviewer: BIG ORGANIZATIONAL EDIT

Hey Fer, I started to edit this text, and then I got really confused about what the main goal is of this topic set, and whether the user actions are presented in the right order.

It seems to me that we have a task topic set here, with the overall goal of debugging a remote application from Anypoint Studio. There is one prereq, and then three subtasks:

Prereq: You have exported and deployed your application to a remote Mule instance. 

* Add the plug-in to your remote instance
* Start your remote instance in debug mode. 
   [Is this actually a prereq? are we REstarting in debug mode in the subtopic?]
* Configure Studio to debug a remote instance. 

Are these tasks in chronological order? 
Do you have to configure Studio before starting the remote instance in debug mode?
If the remote instance is already deployed, don't you have to REstart it in debug mode?
When do you add the plug-in: during the prereq (execution and deployment), or before/after configuring Studio or starting/restarting in debug mode?

The remainder of my edit will be copyediting with location-specific references to the comments above.

> = Debug your Application on a Remote Mule Instance From Studio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Debug Your Application on a Remote Mule Instance from Studio
```

Reviewer: Use Studio to Debug Applications on Remote Mule Instances?

> ifndef::env-site,env-github[]

Reviewer: INSTRUCTIONS FOR EDIT REVIEW

Hi Kim! I have an edit request for a Studio example: https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-studio/pull/77/
I only need the file modules/ROOT/pages/to-start-server-debug-mode.adoc edited.
I updated pretty much the entire article, so please edit the whole thing.

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> 

Reviewer: In general, you want to avoid going from the title of a task topic directly to the title Prerequisites.
Instead, provide a useful introduction that tells WHY your audience wants or needs to perform this task, under what circumstances. If there is more than one subtopic, summarize the content of the topic set here, and provide any restrictions (in this case, that you can't perform remote debugging on clusters).

== Prerequesites

> * Add the Mule Debugger Mule Server plugin to your Mule instance. +

Reviewer: Is the plug-in really named "Mule Debugger Mule Server plugin"?
Otherwise, lowercase everything but Mule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have manually moved the Mule Debugger Mule Server plugin from the Mule instance embedded in Anypoint Studio to your remote Mule 4.x instance. +
```
This edit is to avoid the explanation that follows, because a prereq should be just a list item. 
Please reread to be sure this is technically correct.

> Because Mule runtime engine 4.x does not include the remote debugger plugin as it did in previous versions, you must manually move the bundled debugger plugin from the embedded Mule runtime engine in Studio, and move it to your remote Mule instance.

Reviewer: I would omit this text, because it does not belong in a prereq list:
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: A prerequisites section in a task should be just a list of conditions that must already exist, or things that the user has already done, without instructions or conceptual reasons for the requirement.

In the case of this topic set, as currently organized, the prereqs are 1) you have already deployed an application to a remote instance, and 2) you have already added the debugger plug-in to that instance.

The third item mentioned here, about clusters, is not a prerequisite; it is a restriction that needs introducing in the topic intro. that should be added.

Reviewer: What follows is a task, not a prerequisite.
I would create a separate topic for this, equal to the other two current subtasks.

> . Locate the plugins embedded with Anypoint Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate the Windows, OSx, and Linux plug-ins embedded with Anypoint Studio:
```

Reviewer: Didn't we agree to Mule Maven plugin but not necessarily "plugin" for other "plug-in"s?

+

> *Windows*. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Windows +
```
bullet point, no period; ditto for all three

Navigate to the `/plugins/` directory in your Studio’s installation directory.
+

> *OSx*. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* OSx +
```

Navigate to your Studio installation in `/Applications/`, right-click on it, select *Show Package Content*, and navigate to `Contents/Eclipse/plugins/`.
+

> *Linux*. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Linux +
```

Navigate to the `/plugins/` directory in your `/usr/lib/anypointstudio/` directory.

> . Navigate to the  `org.mule.tooling.server.4.x.x.ee_7.x.x.xxxxxx/mule/server-plugins/` directory. +

Reviewer: (remove space)
```suggestion
. Navigate to the `org.mule.tooling.server.4.x.x.ee_7.x.x.xxxxxx/mule/server-plugins/` directory. +
```

The `org.mule.tooling.server.4.x.X.ee_7.x` folder name varies depending on your installed Studio version and build ID.
. Copy the `mule-debugger-mule-server-plugin` folder and paste it in the `MULE_HOME/server-plugins` directory of your remote Mule instance.

> * You must export and deploy your application to the desired instance before accessing and debugging your application on a remote Mule instance. +

Reviewer: This is a prereq.
But it gets lost following the task.
And...I wonder if we are providing obvious information in it. I mean, you could not access and debug something that you have not actually exported and deployed, right?

> When you start Mule in debug mode all applications that you launch in that server run in debug mode.

Reviewer: Isn't this information that belongs in the task for starting in debug mode?
It sounds like it is assumed that the remote instance was already started in debug mode, rather than that being something that you have to subsequently do.

> * Remote debugging does not work with clusters.

Reviewer: Not a prereq.
```suggestion
```

> == Start your remote Mule Instance in Debug Mode.

Reviewer: I can't tell if this is really a prerequisite to the task of remotely debugging from Studio, or a subtask of that task. 
Reevaluate organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Start Your Remote Mule Instance in Debug Mode
```

Reviewer: Is this a Task topic or a Reference topic? 
I now see that there are no numbered steps here, although there are sentences that sound like instructions.
You might need to retitle.

Reviewer: Regardless of topic type, try to provide a narrative introduction that tells why your audience wants or needs this info, to accomplish what goal, and summarize content (in this case, two methods for starting in debug mode (CLI or wrapper config). Maybe something like...:

"Before you can use Anypoint Studio to remotely debug an application running on a remote Mule instance, you must start that instance in debug mode, either by passing debug parameters in CLI commands when you start the instance or in its configuration file."

Mule runtime engine takes the following parameters to start in debug mode:

> 

Reviewer: I'd use a description list or a bullet list instead of a table, since there are only two columns and one of them is narrative.

[%header.spread,cols="40a,60a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description
| `-M-Dmule.debug.enable=true`
| Sets debugging mode in Mule. +

> This parameter is mandatory and must be sent first.

Reviewer: Will the audience be confused by "first"; do we mean before the following two parameters or first before other parameters?

| `-M-Dmule.debug.port=<port number>`

> | Sets the listening port for incoming connections from Studio. If unset, the listening port will be 6666.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Sets the listening port for incoming connections from Studio. If not set otherwise, the default listening port of 6666 is used.
```
"The port of The Beast"?  lol

| `-M-Dmule.debug.suspend=true`

> | Sets suspend mode in Mule. In suspend mode, Mule starts and then immediately suspends application execution until it receives a connection on the debug port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Sets Mule to start and then immediately suspend application execution until it receives a connection on the debug port.
```

|===

> To start Mule in debug mode, you must use these parameters in any of the following two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start Mule in debug mode, use these parameters in either of the following two ways:
```

> * Pass the Debug Parameters when Starting Mule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pass the debug parameters when starting Mule.
```

+

> You can pass the debug parameters to the Mule runtime engine on the command line in the appropriate order, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pass the debug parameters to the Mule runtime engine on the command line in the following appropriate order:
```

+
[source,text,linenums]
----
<$MULE_HOME>/bin/mule start -M-Dmule.debug.enable=true -M-Dmule.debug.port=1234
----

> * Configure the Debug Parameters in Mule Runtime Engine Configuration File.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure the debug parameters in the Mule configuration file.
```

+
You can include the parameters in the wrapper configuration file located in `$MULE_HOME/conf/wrapper.conf`:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
wrapper.java.additional.4=-Dmule.debug.enable=true
wrapper.java.additional.5=-Dmule.debug.port=1234
----

> == Configure Studio to Debug your Application in a Remote Mule Instance

Reviewer: So, now that I have gotten all the way down here, it looks like this is the real focus of this Task.
You have two options: 
. One topic about remote debugging, including peer topics about adding the plug-in, starting in debug mode, and configuring Studio (arrange in order of User Journey)
. One topic about configuring Studio to debug remotely, with listing adding the plug-in and starting in debug mode as prerequistes but making them separate task topics

Reviewer: In any case, provide a narrative intro to the task, between this title and the first step.

> . Ensure that your Mule application is running in your remote Mule instance and that the Mule instance is started in debug mode.

Reviewer: This is not the first step; these are prerequisites.

> . In Studio, click *Run* on the top menu bar, and click *Debug Configurations*.

Reviewer: Unless you really think users need to be directed to the top navigation, suggest...:
```suggestion
. In Studio, click *Run* > *Debug Configurations*.
```

. In the window's left pane, click *Remote Mule Application*.

> . Click the new configuration icon.

Reviewer: I have no idea what this icon looks like, and if it is not labeled, maybe the audience won't know, either.
Can we provide a tiny capture?

> . Enter the required parameters for the configuration:

Reviewer: Consider whether we really need to describe the parameters beyond what they are named.
If we need to describe one or more but not all, consider this format (apply as applicable):
```suggestion
. Enter the required parameters for the configuration.
Note that `Port` must be the same as the debug port you configured in the remote Mule instance.
```

+

> * *Name:* name for this configuration.

Reviewer: for parallelism only:
```suggestion
* *Name:* specifies the name for this configuration.
```

* *Host:* indicates the location of the remote Mule server.
* *Port:* indicates the listening port for the remote Mule server. +
This must be the same debug port that you configured in your Mule instance.
. Click *Debug*.

> Every time you ping your application in the remote server, you can debug your application in Studio.

Reviewer: This sentence sounds like it applies to the whole topic set and not just this subtopic about configuring Studio.
It is about debugging, not configuring, so it should likely be moved to the topic set intro.
